---
title: "about me: june 2009"
author: masen
layout: post
tags: aboutme classic
---

Hi, my name is Masen Furer. At the time of writing, I am 18 years old and just graduated from high school. I am now attending Western Washington University and perusing degrees in Computer Science, Math, and Physics. I was actively involved in student government in my high school years and now work as a counselor at a Washington State Summer Leadership Camp.

For the last few years, I have fixed computers for friends and family in my hometown and made a decent living for a teenager. Now I am seeking to use those skills that I have learned to expand my business and hopefully work my way through college in Bellingham, WA designing web pages and providing IT consulting services at a very competitive rate.

My education has taken me to many very interesting places over the years. My high school in small town Longview surprisingly has one of the best CNC/CAM programs in the entire nation. Being involved in that, I have learned so much about industrial prototyping and CAD, especially the practical application of such skills. In fact, I've been on a 3 student team team that has competed in a national competition for Automated Manufacturing where we have taken the bronze in 2008 and hopefully the gold in 2009! In fulfilling my community service requirement for graduation, I worked at a public access TV station and directed live tv! As well as filming and editing hours of community footage, I was able to use professional equipment and learn a lot about how broadcast works. In 2007 and 2008 I worked as a camp counselor for fifth grade students at a local elementary school, which was a very rewarding experience overall and taught me that, yes, I could deal with kids (if i needed to). Obviously I enjoyed it enough to come back for a second year.

My new goal in life is to see as much of the world around me as possible (and no google earth does not count). In 2008, I went to San Francisco with my dad and brother, which was by far one of the greatest experiences of my life. No, we didn't ride the trolley, but we did see Battery Alexander, a WWII era defensive post which was incredibly cool and featured a great view of the golden gate bridge. We drove down Lombard St., the curviest road in America supposedly, stopped by Haight-Ashbury, and walked along the wharf. And if anyone says you have to go to the top of the observation tower, save your money. The best view in the entire town is Twin Peaks and its free (plus gas)! In 2009, my family went to the East Coast (Boston, New York, D.C.) for a week and that was a trip! If you live on the west side and have never gotten over there, you have to. Washington D.C. is something you absolutely must see in your lifetime. There's just something about the East Coast, I don't think I could ever live there, but for a westerner it was so amazingly different than I'm used to. Just make sure that you have loads of cash if you're driving, because the tolls add up fast.

For hobbies, I basically love making things, I'm an amateur photographer, videographer, sound technician, musician, poet, and writer. But I'm always looking for ways to capitalize on my interesting skills. So, if you're looking for dirt cheap video work, semi-professional audio recording, or portraits, get ahold of me and I just may be able to help you out!

So for now, I'm just out there living my life and trying to experience as much as I can and meet as many people as possible. Trying to make the most of every day that I have and leave the world a better place than I found it, all while having as much fun as I can.
