---
title: tricky advertising.
author: masen
layout: post
redirect_from:
  - /blog/tricky-advertising-.html
  - /blog/23
---

Most of my personal friends and family know that I\'m really turned off
by most forms of advertising (specifically excluding word of mouth
recommendations which areÂ not spamming). My main problem with it, is
that it hits most people where they\'re most vulnerable \-- their
subconscious. We would assume that advertising doesn\'t directly
influence our buying decisions, however that assumption is almost always
flawed. Since I\'ve started watching more TV, I\'ve caught myself
thinking that I needed a new Dyson, Kenmore super dishwasher, and other
shiny things before realizing that I\'d been duped.

Today, I was particularly caught off guard while Googling for a JPA
question. I was looking at the discussion thread, and at the end there
was a small non-intrusive advertisement:

[![Its tricky because it looks like a forum post and contains a forum
looking link which is an
ad]({{ "assets/img/blog/tricky_banner_clip.png" | relative_url }})]({{ "assets/img/blog/tricky_banner_full.png" | relative_url }})

However, the way this ad is integrated into the rest of the site (click
for context) leads to a high probability that it is clicked by fast
skimming answer-seekers like myself. Grr\... I was fooled by a banner
ad, what year is this?

This seems like it wouldn\'t be too big of a problem for active members
of the site in question, but their content is google fodder, and the
seekers are not going to keep coming back to coderanch. For similar
reasons I avoid all links to w3schools or bigresource. **If you\'re
advertising legitimate goods and services, you don\'t have to resort to
tricks for clicks.**
