---
title: authenticity
author: masen
layout: post
tags: philosophy lengthy
redirect_from:
  - /blog/authenticity.html
  - /blog/18
---

> "If we want authenticity, we must initiate it."
>
> -- Travis Rice

<span class="image right">[![The Art of Flight]({{ "assets/img/blog/art_of_flight_thumb.jpg" | relative_url }})]({{ "assets/img/blog/art_of_flight.jpg" | relative_url }})</span>

**Society** - A set of social norms, behaviors, beliefs, and culture
held in common by individuals. From the enlightenment idea of the Social
Contract, it is assumed that with society comes mutual benefit,
protection, and safety. Civilization vs. savagery, justice vs. power.
It\'s a great promise and an evolutionary step in the human experience
to organize ourselves in and subscribe to these auspicious thought
structures.

At the core, the social contract is nothing but *an agreement on
arbitrary conventions*. All of our ills, known and unknown have been
created \-- they are not a consequence of capitolism, government policy,
or the welfare state. In fact, these things are a consequence of our
arbitrary decisions. Our undying faith in society has created problems
for us which do not necessarily exist; it\'s our faith which has
convinced the members of society that things can\'t change, that they
wont. Our **minds** cling to the thought structures, our **fear**
prevents them from changing.

But what happens when we don\'t explicity agree to the conventions, but
are born-in to the madness that persists? What happens when the ideas of
corporate leaders and bankers become core tenants of our supposed faith?

Look around.

**We get money** \-- created on fancy paper with the faith that it can
be exchanged for goods and services, but controlled by powerful bankers,
withheld from our fellow human beings, and used as the justification for
theft, deceit, inequality, and death.

**We get jobs** \-- glorious time-sucking toils where we spend most of
our lives doing things we admittedly do not want to do in order to \"get
by\" in this world that we\'ve created. Our lives consumed by the fear
of losing our despised livelihood, which is the extrapolation of the
fear of not getting what we want.

**We get growth** \-- preferably unchecked and exponentially increasing,
to reduce our planet to a hot ball of carbon exhaust, and make very few
people very very rich.

Obviously the huddled masses have spoken, and yielded their lives and
happiness in exchange for someone\'s steamboat fairy tale of the
American Dream. But there\'s more to life. Much more in fact. It\'s
always been there and it doesn\'t cost any money (we made that up,
remember); beneath the arbitary social conventions and mental structures
that we\'ve built up to filter the world into good and bad, there exists
a subtle feeling, a connection, a true unbiased perception of the world.
*Beneath it all is where **Authenticity** lays.

Authenticity is always there, one can\'t go out and simply find
authenticity and then stop. It\'s a matter of noticing it within
yourself, others, and in interactions. The first step is to strip away
everything that doesn\'t matter (thoughts, emotions, impulses) and
become aware of what is left. Those thoughts, those emotions, much like
society are not \'real\'. Our minds have created them, for better or
worse. When they are purged from your conscious flow, what is left is
Authentic.

When members of society can disidentify with their faith in arbitrary
conventions, fear will subside. When those individuals realize that we
created money and regardless of how much any one person has, they are
still the SAME, that society will be markedly Authentic.

### It doesn\'t start with society; it starts with you and me. If we want it, we need to make it happen.
